ch11-bitcoin-updates.adoc, before:

[[ch11]]
== Bitcoin updates -  Safely introduce new stuff

Describe soft forks and hard forks and how segwit got deployed.

Also, as we discussed in <<validating-early-blocks>>, a full node that
does the initial blockchain download, may chose not to verify any
signatures before a certain block. This would also open up the
possibility for the node to skip downloading and storing the
signature scripts. Witness data becomes cheaper because it can be pruned

Explain why it's called a "witness program"

Add transaction version to transactions in chapter 9. Also mention it
in ch5 where we mention locktime and sequence. Also BIP68 requires transaction version 2.

Generally, use graphs instead of tables?

Make a better ecosystem overview in ch01. Seriously.

Update outdated numbers and stuff throughout the book. Price charts etc.

Section on pruning

Add answers to exercises

Go through book and highlight IMPORTANT stuff.

Explain nothing-up-my-sleeve in ch04.

payment channel
lightning

Bitcoin's confirmation times (several minutes) and relatively high
transaction fees, see <<bitcoin-at-a-glance>>, can be a showstopper
for small quick payments, like when you buy your morning coffee on
your way to work. You don't want to wait 10 minutes at the cafe. We
noted in <<when-not-to-use-bitcoin>> that technical solutions are on
their way to solve this problem. We will explain payment channels that
lets you make tiny payments nearly instantaneous. Payment channels
lays the groundworks for higher level systems, like the Lightning
Network.

From p2r5: Make Chapter 4 some more straight an “easy”.

Open questions:

* Does anyone here know why the sequence of other inputs are zeroed when signing with SIGHASH_NONE or SIGHASH_SINGLE? Doesn't that interfere with relative lock time and RBF opt-in?

* Why do Bernanke outputs have values >0? Do they have to?

Closed questions:

* Can we really save storage and or bandwidth between full nodes with segwit?
** Yes, but not right now. Witnessless mode is not implemented.

* How can you make a relative lock-time transaction that is not opt-in RBF?
** opt-in RBF is seq<0xffffffff-1 while rel-lock-time is 0x7fffffff-0x00000000

* Is it possible that there are other yet unknown ways to malleate a signature than the "-S" trick? Or maybe even known ones? I refer only to inherent ECDSA signature malleability.
** Yes it's possible according to wumpus in bitcoin-core-dev

Commit message:

* Marking stats that might change with css class "movingtarget".
* Added IMPORTANT: to some more paragraphs.

* Fixed (C) so that it doesn't convert to copyright sign.

* Added hint for exercise ch09-12 on RBF."

ch11-bitcoin-updates.adoc, after:

[[ch11]]
== Bitcoin updates -  Safely introduce new stuff

Describe soft forks and hard forks and how segwit got deployed.


Todo:

Make a better ecosystem overview in ch01. Seriously.

Update outdated numbers and stuff throughout the book. Price
charts etc. I've marked them with css class "movingtarget"

Go through book and highlight IMPORTANT stuff.

Explain why it's called a "witness program"

Explain nothing-up-my-sleeve in ch04.

spellcheck



Less important todos: 

Section on pruning

payment channel

lightning

Bitcoin's confirmation times (several minutes) and relatively high
transaction fees, see <<bitcoin-at-a-glance>>, can be a showstopper
for small quick payments, like when you buy your morning coffee on
your way to work. You don't want to wait 10 minutes at the cafe. We
noted in <<when-not-to-use-bitcoin>> that technical solutions are on
their way to solve this problem. We will explain payment channels that
lets you make tiny payments nearly instantaneous. Payment channels
lays the groundworks for higher level systems, like the Lightning
Network.

From p2r5: Make Chapter 4 some more straight an “easy”.



Open questions:

* Does anyone here know why the sequence of other inputs are zeroed
  when signing with SIGHASH_NONE or SIGHASH_SINGLE? Doesn't that
  interfere with relative lock time and RBF opt-in?

Closed questions:

* Why do Bernanke outputs have values >0? Do they have to?
** No they don't have to. There's no policy agains value >0 today, and
   there (probably) weren't any back then.

* Can we really save storage and or bandwidth between full nodes with segwit?
** Yes, but not right now. Witnessless mode is not implemented.

* How can you make a relative lock-time transaction that is not opt-in RBF?
** opt-in RBF is seq<0xffffffff-1 while rel-lock-time is 0x7fffffff-0x00000000

* Is it possible that there are other yet unknown ways to malleate a signature than the "-S" trick? Or maybe even known ones? I refer only to inherent ECDSA signature malleability.
** Yes it's possible according to wumpus in bitcoin-core-dev
