grokking-bitcoin.adoc, before:

= Grokking Bitcoin
:doctype: book
:linkcss:
:stylesdir: style
:sectnums:
:toc: left
:toclevels: 30
:icons: font
:baseimagedir: images
:commonimagedir: {baseimagedir}/common
:stylesheet: grokking-bitcoin.css
:stem: latexmath
:xrefstyle: short
:chapter-label: chapter
:section-label: section

:full-width: width='100%'
:big-width: width='75%'
:half-width: width='50%'
:third-width: width='30%'
:quart-width: width='25%'
:tiny-height: height='10%'
:thumb: width='40%'
:btc: image:{commonimagedir}/btc-sans.png[BTC,role="btc"]

ifdef::ch1,chall[include::ch01-introduction-to-bitcoin.adoc[]]

ifdef::ch2,chall[]
include::ch02-securing-cookie-tokens.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch3,chall[]
include::ch03-addresses.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch4,chall[]
include::ch04-wallets.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch5,chall[]
include::ch05-transactions.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch6,chall[]
include::ch06-the-blockchain.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch7,chall[]
include::ch07-proof-of-work.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch8,chall[]
include::ch08-peer-to-peer-network.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch9,chall[]
include::ch09-transactions-revisited.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch10,chall[]
include::ch10-segregated-witness.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch11,chall[]
include::ch11-bitcoin-upgrades.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::chans,chall[]
ifndef::chapter[include::answers.adoc[]]
endif::[]

ifdef::chweb,chall[]
ifndef::chapter[include::web-resources.adoc[]]
endif::[]

Commit message:

Removing asciidoctor.css and using docinfo.html to link grokking-bitcoin.css. This fixes the issue that asciidoctor.css isn't automatically copied when building book because we used :stylesheet: grokking-bitcoin.css. Now we use the default stylesheet asciidoctor.css instead so that it's automatically copied to the style dir and then we link to grokking-bitcoin.css using docinfo.html.

grokking-bitcoin.adoc, after:

= Grokking Bitcoin
:doctype: book
:linkcss:
:stylesdir: style
:sectnums:
:toc: left
:toclevels: 30
:icons: font
:baseimagedir: images
:commonimagedir: {baseimagedir}/common
// The specialized css is specified in style/docinfo.html instead of a :stylesheet: attribute
//:stylesheet: grokking-bitcoin.css
:stem: latexmath
:xrefstyle: short
:docinfo: shared
:docinfodir: {stylesdir}
:chapter-label: chapter
:section-label: section

:full-width: width='100%'
:big-width: width='75%'
:half-width: width='50%'
:third-width: width='30%'
:quart-width: width='25%'
:tiny-height: height='10%'
:thumb: width='40%'
:btc: image:{commonimagedir}/btc-sans.png[BTC,role="btc"]

ifdef::ch1,chall[include::ch01-introduction-to-bitcoin.adoc[]]

ifdef::ch2,chall[]
include::ch02-securing-cookie-tokens.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch3,chall[]
include::ch03-addresses.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch4,chall[]
include::ch04-wallets.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch5,chall[]
include::ch05-transactions.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch6,chall[]
include::ch06-the-blockchain.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch7,chall[]
include::ch07-proof-of-work.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch8,chall[]
include::ch08-peer-to-peer-network.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch9,chall[]
include::ch09-transactions-revisited.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch10,chall[]
include::ch10-segregated-witness.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::ch11,chall[]
include::ch11-bitcoin-upgrades.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::chans,chall[]
ifndef::chapter[include::answers.adoc[]]
endif::[]

ifdef::chweb,chall[]
ifndef::chapter[include::web-resources.adoc[]]
endif::[]
